INSTABILITY CHARACTERISTICS INDUCED BY …
FIG. 18. The spectral plots obtained from the axial velocity w shows the azimuthal wave number k
corresponding to the radius rδ, where the color represents the results after taking the logarithm base 10 of
the amplitude. (a) Case 4, Re = 3 × 105, S = 10. (b) Case 5, Re = 3 × 105, S = 100.
band structures because the spiral waves have relative motion with respect to the rotating disk. At
the current Reynolds number Re = 3 × 105, the traveling spiral waves mode with S = 10 appears
somewhat more disordered, which might be due to the energy of the traveling spiral waves mode
reaching a peak at radius r
δ = 467.1, and the subsequent breaking of some spiral waves, making
the boundary layer more chaotic. As mentioned earlier, at Re = 2 × 105, spiral waves at high
radii positions exhibit ﬂuctuations, but these are not large, manifesting as intermittent pulsations
of the crossﬂow vortices themselves. At Re = 3 × 10
5, the pulsations of the outermost crossﬂow
vortices are very pronounced, and each pulsation corresponds to an inclined band structure on the
spatiotemporal diagram. Clearly, the pulsations shown in these space-time plots are not due to the
pulsations of the crossﬂow vortices themselves, but rather due to the gradual growth of the Traveling
spiral waves mode. Thus, when they occupy the same radial position as the crossﬂow vortices, the
visual pulsating phenomenon displayed is the result of the superposition of the two waves. Through
comparison with Fig. 13(a), it is evident that the traveling spiral waves rotate counterclockwise.
For S = 10, the frequency of traveling spiral waves passing through the rotating disk is approx-
imately ω
t = 1.5 (in rotating frame), whereas for S = 100, the frequency of traveling spiral waves
passing through the disk is about ωt = 1.9. However, it is not possible to precisely determine the
precession frequency of the traveling spiral waves, due to the fact that at higher radii, the azimuthal
wave number of the spiral waves is not exact. The spectral graph shown in Fig. 18 reﬂects this
characteristic. At higher radii, lower wave numbers primarily dominate the characteristics of the
boundary layer disturbances; however, no harmonics of these traveling spiral wave modes appear.
These modes radially overlap with the stationary spiral wave modes induced by roughness elements
at intermediate radii, and the harmonic features of the stationary spiral wave modes are very distinct.
To clarify the relationship between the traveling spiral waves mode and the stationary spiral
waves mode excited by roughness elements, a new simulation, referred to as case 6, was carried
out. Case 6 differs from case 4 in that the roughness elements on the rotating disk have been
removed. The initial condition for case 6 consists of the ﬁnal ﬂow ﬁeld from case 4, with the ﬂow
ﬁelds corresponding to modes k = 32 and k = 64 subtracted. This setup is designed to examine
the dynamics of the traveling spiral waves mode in the absence of the roughness-element-induced
stationary mode, thereby shedding light on whether the traveling spiral waves mode can persist
independently. Figure 19(a) shows the variation of the kinetic energy E
k of several speciﬁc modes
from t = 0t o t = 20 in case 6. The Fourier modes k = 15 and k = 16, associated with high-radius
traveling spiral waves mode, do not show signiﬁcant changes but ﬂuctuate over time. Mode k = 32
was once a stationary mode. After the disappearance of the roughness elements, it did not regain
dominance in the kinetic energy of the boundary layer modes. Instead, it increased rapidly to
the same level as mode k = 33. This indicates that the excited traveling spiral waves mode is
not inﬂuenced by the roughness elements-induced stationary spiral waves mode and can persist
013901-17