INSTABILITY CHARACTERISTICS INDUCED BY …
FIG. 8. Space-time plot showing w at zδ = 1.31, Re = 2 × 105, S = 10.
un, vn, wn represent the instantaneous velocity at each grid point along the circumference repre-
sented by radius rδ, and ˜u,˜v, ˜w represent their azimuthal average velocity. Thus, the 1/2log(E (rδ))
can serve as a good indicator for measuring the degree of instantaneous disturbances, similar to
log(v
rms ). For S = 0, the perturbation energy E (rδ) exhibits a sharp increase at a higher growth rate
beyond rδ > 425, this edge-driven global mode. However, for S = 10 and S = 100, after passing
through the roughness elements, E (rδ) initially decreases sharply and then suddenly increases. The
magnitude of this increase is dependent on the value of S, but the overall trend remains the same.
For S = 10, there is an initial approximately linear increase in E (rδ) beyond rδ > 264, reaching
a maximum value before slowly decreasing. For S = 10 and S = 100, the maximum values are,
respectively,−1.835 and −1.150. This means that under the current roughness elements, the maxi-
mum value of the disturbances is not linearly proportional to the intensity of the roughness elements,
but is approximately proportional to S
0.685. For small roughness elements, experiments [ 4,35,36]
have shown that the receptivity is proportional to the height of the roughness element. For S = 10,
after rδ > 375, there is another approximate linear increase. For S = 100, there is a consistent and
distinct linear increase along the radial direction beyond rδ > 325. With S = 10, which represents
a smaller drag coefﬁcient, the excited crossﬂow vortices mode undergo multiple transitions during
the downstream convection process and do not exhibit the linear growth characteristics along the
radius as observed with S = 100. However, the crossﬂow vortices do not dominate the transition to
turbulence on the rotating-disk boundary. This will be discussed when considering Re = 4 × 10
5.
For S = 10, the excited crossﬂow vortices mode undergo multiple transitions during the down-
stream convection process and do not exhibit the linear growth characteristics along the radius as
observed with S = 100. It is likely that due to the insufﬁcient intensity of the spiral waves, and the
dominance of radial nonparallel effects, a stabilizing effect on the spiral waves has occurred between
r
δ = 325 and rδ = 375, where the disturbances reach saturation and exhibit a decreasing trend.
Until rδ > 375, there is another approximate linear increase, This is attributed to the re-dominance
of crossﬂow instability. Although existing studies have shown that roughness elements can excite
crossﬂow vortex modes, current research has not yet provided evidence of these crossﬂow vortex
modes, i.e., whether the spiral waves occurring within the boundary layer are stationary relative to
the rotating disk. Therefore, to demonstrate the characteristics of crossﬂow vortex modes, Figs. 8
and 9 present the space-time plots at z
δ = 1.31, θ= 0, and 217 .9 < rδ < 447.2( 5 < r < 10.26)
for a duration of 20 time units, where the axial velocity w ranges from −0.05 (blue) to 0.05 (red).
(The rotational period of the rotating disk is 2 π time units.) These plots are intended to showcase
the characteristics of the crossﬂow vortices mode.
In both cases, there are parallel blue and red stripes along the time axis, the local axial velocityw
does not exhibit periodic ﬂuctuations caused by the alternating passage of spiral waves. Recall that
our current computational domain is in a cylindrical coordinate system that rotates with the rotating
disk; therefore, the rotating disk is stationary within the computational domain. Consequently, the
space-time plots indicate that the crossﬂow vortices are relatively stationary with respect to the rotat-
ing disk. The space-time plots also clearly show that the radial wavelength of the crossﬂow vortices
013901-11