DU, XIE, XIE, W ANG, XU, AND ZHU
FIG. 22. Space-time plot showing w at zδ = 1.245, Re = 4 × 105, S = 10.
suggests that the presence of turbulence is a distinct condition inﬂuencing the energy distribution in
the boundary layer close to the shroud.
The focus should now be on the traveling spiral waves mode, as it is instrumental in the genesis
of local turbulence within the disk boundary layer. As illustrated by the space-time diagram for
case 7 in Fig. 22, it is evident that the spiral waves in the rotating-disk boundary layer begin to
lose their stability beyond r
δ = 493.1, leading to the formation of contorted and chaotic structures
indicative of local turbulence. During the transition process, the morphology of the spiral waves is
highly variable; for instance, at t = 7, a spiral wave extends to r
δ = 524.0 before dissipating, and
compared to other spiral waves, its striation structure has a larger angle of inclination with respect
to the time axis. Regrettably, the current space-time diagram does not capture the local turbulence
phenomena that would arise from secondary instabilities of the spiral waves [38,39].
IV . CONCLUSION
Unlike the traditionally single rotating disk, detailed trasitional processes brought by roughness
elements, and hence, under the selective excitation of crossﬂow vortices, are still unknown until
now. This study employs a Fourier/spectral element-based spectral vanishing viscosity method to
conduct large eddy simulations (LES-SVV). A resistance source term based on the local relative
velocity squared is added to the momentum equation. The objective is to investigate the effects
of roughness elements on rotating-disk in a rotor-stator cavity on instability and furthermore, on
transition to turbulence. The main ﬁndings of this study can be summarized as follows:
(i) Through the analysis of eight simulation cases, the current grid resolution and numerical
methods have been initially validated to be capable of capturing the spiral waves structure with
an azimuthal wave number of 75 near the shroud due to the strong centrifugal and shear effects,
as observed in Yim et al. ’s [6] study. Additionally, at a lower Reynolds number Re = 2 × 10
5,
stationary mode spiral waves excited by 32 azimuthal uniform roughness elements have been
identiﬁed starting from r = 6, which almost entirely occupy the entire disk boundary layer. The
peak of v
rms occurs at an axial length ofzδ = 1.31. This value is remarkably close tozδ = 1.3, which
corresponds to a von Kármán boundary layer in single rotating disk. When the drag coefﬁcient
S = 100, there is an increase in the disturbance intensity of the crossﬂow vortices, which grow
slowly downstream with a modest growth rate, indicative of an increase in radial wavelength. At
higher radii, the crossﬂow vortices corresponding to drag coefﬁcients S = 10 and S = 100 both
remain unsaturated.
(ii) When the Reynolds number is Re = 3 × 10
5, regardless of whether S = 10 or S = 100, the
roughness elements-induced crossﬂow vortices reach saturation. Interestingly, despite the saturation
013901-20