DU, XIE, XIE, W ANG, XU, AND ZHU
FIG. 19. (a) Case 6, kinetic energy at k = 15, 16, 32, 33, 100. (b) The distribution of perturbation energy
E (r) along the radial.
independently, suggesting no interaction between stationary and traveling spiral waves mode in the
current study. Once excited, a traveling spiral waves mode can sustain itself. Similarly, the high wave
number mode k = 100, located near the guard, is unaffected by the roughness elements. Figure19(b)
provides a quantitative comparison between the radial distribution of kinetic energy, E (r), for
the ﬂow ﬁelds in case 4 after the exclusion of mode k = 32, and in case 6. In the linear growth
region of energy (400.4 < r
δ < 467.1), the two curves nearly overlap, further conﬁrming that the
high-radius traveling spiral waves mode are unaffected by the stationary spiral waves modek = 32.
If one extends the observation to lower radii, it is noted that in case 6, the traveling spiral waves
mode begin to exhibit an increase in disturbance energy starting from a smaller radius, r
δ = 266.9.
Section II elaborately explains that introducing a rotating hub at the lower radius of the disk can
induce centrifugal instability, leading to the development of large-scale convective spiral waves in
the rotating-disk boundary layer. This is further conﬁrmed by Fig. 19(b), which demonstrates that
the traveling spiral waves mode can also develop under disturbances at lower radii and persist.In
Fig. 19(a), the large-scale ﬂuctuations of modes k = 15 and k = 16 over time reﬂect the nature of a
group of spiral waves characteristic of the traveling spiral waves mode. These spiral waves undergo
a dynamic process of merging and splitting as they evolve. Figure 20(a) illustrates the interactions
among modes k = 13, k = 14, k = 15, and k = 16 at high radial positions, showcasing the complex
interplay at work in the development of these traveling wave patterns. Among the observed modes,
mode k = 14 possesses the highest kinetic energy and the largest amplitude of pulsations, with
a pulsation period T
k ≈ 8.5. Although the pulsation period of mode k = 15’s kinetic energy Ek
coincides with that of mode k = 14, there is a phase shift between them, indicating a lag in the
energy transfer between modes. While it is challenging to identify the precise pulsation periods for
modes k = 13 and k = 16, the peaks and troughs in their kinetic energy can still be discerned and
are phase-shifted relative to those of modek = 14 and mode k = 15. This phase difference conﬁrms
that the nonlinear interactions leading to the merging of these traveling spiral waves modes are an
ongoing process. As these Fourier modes exhibit an organized coherent space-time evolution, they
FIG. 20. Case 4, kinetic energy Ek at k = 13, 14, 15, 16.
013901-18