DU, XIE, XIE, W ANG, XU, AND ZHU
not only enables a comprehensive understanding of the ﬂow and heat transfer mechanisms within
the cavity but also provides fresh insights into the transition process of rotating ﬂows [4].
The simpliﬁed model consists of a stationary disk and a rotating disk, each with a radius R∗,
separated vertically by a distance of 2H∗. Typically, a shroud is present at the top of the disk [5,6],
and a rotating hub is situated at the bottom [ 7–9]. When secondary ﬂows are introduced near the
lower radius of the disk either radially or axially, researchers are particularly concerned with the
aerodynamic drag or heat transfer on the disk surface, which are critical metrics for the performance
of the rotor-stator cavity in aviation engines [10,11]. Regardless of whether it concerns aerodynamic
drag or heat transfer, these factors are intimately connected to the ﬂow conditions on the surface of
the disk. Laminar and turbulent ﬂows critically inﬂuence these parameters. Therefore, it is essential
to ﬁrst elucidate the transition issues within the boundary layers of the rotor-stator cavity to obtain
more accurate engineering parameters such as aerodynamic drag and heat transfer.
In fact, the typical rotational Reynolds number Re for aerospace engines is around 10
7,( R e=
/Omega1∗R∗2/ν∗, where/Omega1∗
d represents the angular velocity of the disk, andν∗ denotes kinematic viscosity.)
yet current numerical studies rarely achieve such high Reynolds numbers, generally focusing around
Re = 10
6 [12–15]. Empirical evidence suggests that at a Reynolds number of 107, the boundary lay-
ers of both the stationary and rotating disks are fully turbulent. However, at high altitudes with low
Reynolds numbers, due to a signiﬁcant reduction in density, the characteristic Reynolds numbers of
the rotor-stator cavity decrease. At extremely high altitudes, these characteristic Reynolds numbers
can reach 10
5. At this level of Reynolds number, the boundary layers of both the stationary and
rotating disks may exist in a state where laminar-transitional-turbulent ﬂow coexist.
Around this Reynolds number, numerous numerical, theoretical, and experimental studies have
investigated the characteristics of boundary layer ﬂow within rotor-stator cavity [ 6,16–22]. For
the stationary-disk boundary layer, the transition from laminar instability to turbulence occurs
very rapidly, and most studies focus only on its laminar instability. The typical characteris-
tics of instability include large-scale spiral waves distributed azimuthally and axisymmetric ring
waves. Through linear stability analysis, these two types of instabilities are deﬁned as Type I
inviscid crossﬂow instability, caused by a radial velocity inﬂection point, and Type II viscous
instability, resulting from the interaction between Coriolis forces and viscous forces. The critical
Reynolds number for Type I instability is higher than that for Type II instability, leading these
instabilities to occur at higher and lower radii of the boundary layer, respectively. However,
according to research by Cros et al. [23] it is highly probable that the nonlinear interaction
between these two types of instabilities leads to the transition of the stationary-disk boundary
layer to turbulence. Recently, Xie et al. [24] have further emphasized this phenomenon through
direct numerical simulation and global linear stability analysis, highlighting that the nonlinear
interaction between inviscid crossﬂow instability and viscous instability facilitates the emergence
of localized turbulence in the stationary-disk boundary layer. They also noted that the distur-
bances from vigorous turbulence in the stationary-disk boundary layer could propagate across
the core region and impact the rotating-disk boundary layer due to axial migration of the cavity
ﬂow. Therefore, to fully understand the destabilization mechanisms of the rotating-disk boundary
layer, the inﬂuence of vigorous turbulence in the stationary-disk boundary layer must not be
overlooked, as it may affect the linear instability processes within the stationary disk’s boundary
layer.
For the rotating-disk boundary layer, its ﬂow and instability characteristics are similar to those
of the stationary disk, but transition to turbulent occurs at higher Reynolds numbers. According
to research by Yim et al. and Séverac et al. [6,12]a tR e = 4 × 10
5, the boundary layer can be
divided into laminar, transitional, and turbulent regions, with the transition to turbulence being
particularly pronounced. Similar to the case with a single rotating disk, the spiral waves transi-
tion to turbulence through convective or absolute instability. During convective instability, spiral
waves emerge from a lower radius, and typically, their azimuthal wave number is not large. In
the research conducted by Séverac et al. and Xie et al. [12,21] there are about a dozen spiral
waves. However, due to the merging and transformation of spiral waves at higher radii, the exact
013901-2