INSTABILITY CHARACTERISTICS INDUCED BY …
FIG. 21. (a) Cases 7 and 8, kinetic energy at all modes. (b) The distribution of perturbation energy E (r)
along the radial.
are considered to be a type of mode. Therefore, in the current study, the term traveling spiral waves
mode is preferred to refer collectively to these phenomena, rather than identifying any single Fourier
mode in isolation.
C. Transition to turbulence
At a Reynolds number of Re = 3 × 105, the traveling spiral waves mode manifest after the
saturation of the stationary modes and dominate the majority of the downstream region within the
boundary layer. Despite the presence of contortions in the spiral waves near the shroud, as illustrated
in Fig. 14(b), local turbulence is not observed. It is important to note that according to Yim et al.’s
[6] ﬁndings, local turbulence would have already occurred near the shroud at Re = 3 × 10
5.T h e
discrepancy might be attributed to the fact that in the current study, the dominant spiral waves
transitioning the ﬂow have a lower azimuthal wave number compared to those with signiﬁcantly
higher wave numbers in Yim et al.’s [6] study.
To further investigate the effect of an increased Reynolds number, it was raised to Re= 4 × 10
5
in case 7. This case is identical to case 4 in all aspects except for the Reynolds number, and its
initial ﬂow ﬁeld is taken from the stabilized ﬂow ﬁeld resulting from the case 4. Similarly, case
8 only differs from case 6 in terms of the Reynolds number, with its initial ﬂow ﬁeld being the
stabilized ﬂow ﬁeld from the case 5 simulation.
As demonstrated by Fig. 21(a), the kinetic energy E
k corresponding to mode k in the high
azimuthal wave number satisﬁes the −5/3 power-law relationship characteristic of turbulence. For
case 7, the presence of roughness elements means that mode k = 32 continues to dominate the
disturbance characteristics of part of the boundary layer. In addition, the energy of the Fourier
modes corresponding to the traveling spiral waves mode is now comparable to that of the stationary
spiral waves mode represented by k = 32, indicating a more pronounced inﬂuence of the traveling
spiral waves mode on the rotating-disk boundary layer at Re= 4 × 10
5 compared to Re = 3 × 105.
For case 8, apart from k = 32, the mode energies for other wave numbers show no signiﬁcant
differences from case 7, suggesting that even without roughness elements, the boundary layer in
case 8 undergoes a transition to turbulence. Figure 21(b) provides a streamwise perspective on
the development process of the disk boundary layer at the current Reynolds number. For case
7, disturbances are already present within the boundary layer before encountering the roughness
elements, and after passing these elements, the disturbance energyE (r
δ) quickly reaches a peak and
remains relatively unchanged. However, closer to the shroud, there is a continuous and gradual
increase in E (r
δ), which has not been observed in previous cases. In contrast, for case 8, the
disturbances exhibit a clear linear growth starting at rδ = 308.2, which slows around rδ = 413.0,
and thereafter the ﬂow is largely consistent with that of case 7.
Yim et al.’s [6] study indicates that when the ﬂow near the shroud becomes turbulent, the distur-
bance energy E (rδ) in the vicinity of the shroud increases with radial distance. This characteristic
should then be associated speciﬁcally with the ﬂow state in turbulent, as for all other cases in
our study, there was no signiﬁcant increase in the disturbance energy E (r
δ) near the shroud. This
013901-19