INSTABILITY CHARACTERISTICS INDUCED BY …
of the crossﬂow vortices and the apparent nonlinear effects, they do not destabilize to cause local
turbulence. Instead, traveling spiral waves mode emerge following the stationary mode spiral waves.
These traveling spiral waves modes are predominantly concentrated between Fourier modes 10 to
20 and dominate the disturbance at higher radial positions of the rotating-disk noundary layer in the
rotor-stator cavity. Furthermore, signiﬁcant ﬂuctuations in kinetic energy are observed for Fourier
modes with high azimuthal wave numbers ranging from 80 to 120, corresponding to the disturbances
near the shroud in case 1. Speciﬁcally, the disturbances excite traveling spiral waves mode, which
persist even when the stationary mode spiral waves and roughness elements are removed. As the
stationary mode spiral waves disappear at higher radii, the transition towards turbulence in the
current study is dominated by traveling spiral waves mode with azimuthal wave numbersk between
10 and 20. Due to the periodic and interconnected evolution of these traveling modes, which are
coherent structures in both time and space, there is no clear distinction in their azimuthal wave
numbers.
(iii) At a Reynolds number of Re= 4 × 10
5, the disturbance energy of the traveling spiral waves
mode reaches saturation around a radius of rδ = 462.3. However, it is not until approximately rδ =
524.0 that all the traveling spiral waves mode completely lose their characteristic features, resulting
in the onset of turbulence. The disparity in the radius where spiral waves instability occurs can be
attributed to the fact that, despite the coherence in time and space, the traveling spiral waves mode
consist of individual spiral waves with distinct characteristics, particularly manifested in the tilt
angle of the spiral waves.
This study has discussed the transition from laminar to turbulent ﬂow in the rotating-disk
boundary layer, induced by 32 uniformly distributed roughness elements. Considering the destabi-
lization mechanisms of the spiral waves themselves, the research parameter k = 32 is not a unique
azimuthal wave number. When spiral waves of other azimuthal wave numbers are excited, the
destabilization processes and conclusions observed in this study will also occur, indicating that
the current conclusions can be generalized. However, there are still some issues that remain to be
resolved. The current disturbances have induced self-sustaining traveling spiral waves mode, but
it is unclear why the azimuthal wave numbers of these traveling spiral waves modes are conﬁned
to the range of 10 to 20. It is highly probable that the initial development of the traveling spiral
waves mode corresponds to the modal azimuthal wave numbers of 10–20 at r
δ, which have the
highest growth rates, similar to the large-scale spiral waves observed on the rotating-disk boundary
layer of rotor-stator cavity with a rotating hub. Similarly, it is possible that the saturated stationary
mode spiral waves induced by the roughness elements have altered the distribution of the base ﬂow,
alter the number of spiral waves and preventing the onset of absolute instability on the rotating-disk
boundary layer. Providing accurate answers to these questions will require further investigation
using methodologies such as linear stability analysis to explore the characteristic parameters of
spiral waves with different azimuthal wave numbers in subsequent work.
Although the current SVV method is theoretically sound and does not signiﬁcantly affect the
transition process, it remains necessary in subsequent work to use a grid with sufﬁcient resolution
and to minimize the impact of artiﬁcial viscosity. This approach will facilitate the exploration of the
absolute and convective instability characteristics of the rotating-disk boundary layer in the fully
nonlinear Navier-Stokes equations.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors acknowledge the ﬁnancial support of the National Natural Science Foundation
Outstanding Youth Foundation (Grant No. 52122603), the National Science and Technology Major
Project (No. J2019-III-0003-0046), and the numerical calculations in this study were carried out on
the ORISE Supercomputer. Meanwhile, the current work is also supported by the Taishan Scholars
Program.
013901-21