DU, XIE, XIE, W ANG, XU, AND ZHU
APPENDIX: NOMENCLA TURE
To enhance the readability of the paper, the nomenclature for all parameter symbols used in the
paper is provided in Table II.
TABLE II. Nomenclature of all parameter symbols appearing in the paper.
E (r) Perturbation energy along the entire circular surface. Dimensionless.
Ek Kinetic energy of each azimuthal Fourier mode k. Dimensionless.
f V olume force. Dimensionless.
GLL Gauss-Lobatto-Legendre interpolant.
Heav Heaviside function.
H∗ Half the spacing between the disks. Dimensional, m.
k Azimuthal wave number, also mean Fourier mode index. Dimensional.
M Threshold from which svv is applied.
N Highest Fourier mode index for the simulation.
Nr, Nz, Nθ Radial, axial, and azimuthal degrees of freedom.
N-S Navier-Stokes equations.
N(u) Nonlinear term. Dimensionless.
P Pressure. Dimensionless.
Qk Smooth real shape function for SVV .
θ Azimuthal position. Rad.
r, z Dimensionless radial and axial position. Dimensionless by H∗.
r′ Radius of the roughness elements. Dimensionless.
r0 Radial position of the roughness elements. Dimensionless.
rδ Reynolds number based on viscous scale δ. Dimensionless, rδ = r/δ.
R∗ Radius of a disk. Dimensional, m.
Re Reynolds number. Dimensionless, Re = /Omega1∗
d R∗2/ν∗.
Reδ Reynolds number based on viscous scale δand Rossby number Ro. Dimensionless, Reδ =| Ro|rδ.
SVV Spectral vanishing viscosity.
S Drag coefﬁcient. Dimensional.
t Time in simulations. Dimensionless by /Omega1∗
d .
T Rotational period of the rotating disk, T = 2π. Dimensionless by /Omega1∗
d .
u = (u, v, w) Velocity of radial, azimuthal, and axial direction. Dimensionless by /Omega1∗
d H∗.
(u · ∇u + ∇ · uu)/2 Nonlinear terms in skew-symmetric form. Dimensionless.
ˆu∗
k Complex conjugate of the velocity data in the kth Fourier mode. Dimensionless.
ˆuk Velocity of two-dimensional complex Fourier modes.
un, vn, wn Instantaneous velocity of radial, azimuthal, and axial direction. Dimensionless.
˜u,˜v, ˜w Average velocity of the un, vn, wn. Dimensionless.
vrms Azimuthal velocity root-mean-square. Dimensionless.
zδ Dimensionless distance from the rotating disk. Dimensionless by δ.
/Omega1∗
d Angular velocity of the disk. Dimensional, rad/s.
/Omega1d Dimensionless rotational speed of the disk. Dimensionless by /Omega1∗
d .
ν∗ Kinematic viscosity of ﬂuid. Dimensional, m2/s.
ν Kinematic of the ﬂuid. Dimensionless.
ε Moderately small multiple of ν. Dimensionless.
μ Coefﬁcient in the Gaussian forcing function.
δ Viscous scale.
ρ Density of the ﬂuid. Dimensionless.
δt Time step in simulations. Dimensionless by /Omega1∗
d .
λr Radial wavelength. Dimensionless by δ.
013901-22