DU, XIE, XIE, W ANG, XU, AND ZHU
where ν represents kinematic viscosity, k is an integer Fourier mode index, εis a moderately small
multiple of ν, and Qk is a smooth real shape function. In the implementation used in this study, an
exponential kernel is employed to augment the viscosity at high wave numbers:
Qk = exp
(
− (N − k)2
(M − k)2
)
, M < k ⩽ N, (6)
where N is the highest Fourier mode index for the computation and M is the lowest threshold from
which the method is applied.
Quadrilateral nodal spectral elements are used to discretise the meridional ( r, z)-semiplane. In
this case the derivative operator matrices used to construct diffusion operators are modiﬁed via (i)
transformation to Legendre polynomial space; (ii) factorization with a diagonal matrix of form
diag
(
1 + ε
νQk
)1/2
, (7)
where Qk is of the same form as Eq. ( 6) but where now N is the order of the GLL Lagrange
interpolants (N = 6 in the present work) and k is a Legendre polynomial index. Finally (iii) inverse
transformation from Legendre polynomial to physical space. Refer to [31] for further details.
C. Roughness
To replicate the surface roughness, a continuous distribution of volumetric forces is employed
to act upon the surface of the rotating disk. Due to the cylindrical coordinate system rotating at the
speed of the disk, the roughness elements on the disk, along with the disk itself, maintain a ﬁxed
spatial position within the computational domain. So the expression used to quantify these forces is
given as
f =− SHeav(r
′2 − (x − x0 )2 − (y − y0 )2 )e−μ(z− z0 )2
× (u/|u|)|u(z, r,θ, t ) − u(z0, r0,θ0 )|2. (8)
All the length parameters mentioned above have been scaled with respect to H∗ to make them
dimensionless. The parameter S is employed to adjust the magnitude of drag, which can be
likened to the line density in Ref. [ 32]. Heav denotes the Heaviside function, while r′2 = 0.001,
x0 = r0cos(θ0 ), and y0 = r0sin(θ0 ) represent the coordinates of the center of the circular roughness
elements (r0 and θ0 deﬁne the center of the circular roughness elements.). Similarly, x = rcos(θ)
and y = rsin(θ) correspond to the coordinates of the computation domain. To ensure continuous
excitation of the ﬂow, a Gaussian forcing function is applied to the height of the roughness elements
with μ = 3000. ( u/|u|)|u(z, r,θ, t ) − u(z
0, r0,θ0 )|2 denotes the square of the relative velocity in
each direction, since an object moving in a high-Reynolds-number ﬂow experiences drag force of
this form [33].
Figure 2(a) illustrates the roughness elements with r
′2 = 0.001 and r0 = 6, obtained from the
Heaviside function, uniformly distributed along a radial position in the azimuthal direction. For
visual clarity, the roughness elements in the ﬁgure are magniﬁed tenfold. This type of roughness
elements will be used for controlling the transition process on the rotor in subsequent discussions.
Figure 2(b) presents the coefﬁcient of the corresponding height positions of the roughness elements
represented by the Gaussian forcing function when μ = 3000. The Gaussian forcing function was
used by Appelquist et al. [27] in their study of the von Kármán boundary layer.
D. Simulation and boundary conditions
Through the approach in Sec. II C, we have successfully achieved the uniformly distributed of
roughness elements with varying drag. The distribution comprises 32 roughness elements uniformly
distributed along the azimuthal direction at a radius ofr
0 = 6. In this case, the computational domain
013901-6