DU, XIE, XIE, W ANG, XU, AND ZHU
FIG. 6. (a) Case 2, Re = 2 × 105, S = 10. (b) Case 3, Re = 2 × 105, S = 100.
Here, vrms =
√
vv − v2 is nondimensionalized by its maximum value, the horizontal line represents
the time and azimuthal average. zδ is deﬁned as (1 − z)/δ.
Although the boundary layer on the rotating disk and the corresponding disturbances of spiral
waves develop radially, the peak values of vrms for both cases in the current study occur around
zδ = 1.31, while in the single rotating disk with a von Kármán boundary layer, the peak value of
vrms occurs at zδ = 1.3. This phenomenon suggests that the average ﬂow modiﬁcation caused by
spiral waves has not yet occurred in the two present cases. It can be concluded that the spiral waves
are still in the linear development stage and have not reached the nonlinear stage. In Fig. 6(a),i t
can be observed that at locations with lower radii ( r
δ = 283.3, 305.1, 326.9, 348.7), the value of
vrms remains within the same order of magnitude as the peak value of vrms, even at positions far
from the boundary layer. This indicates that the boundary layer at these locations is inﬂuenced
by disturbances originating from the core. Despite this, once perturbations are excited within the
boundary layer, their amplitude exceeds that of the perturbations originating from the core region. In
the context of convective instability studies, we can tentatively neglect the insigniﬁcant perturbations
from the core region, as they are unlikely to exert a pronounced inﬂuence on the results. In Fig.
6(b), the relatively smaller v
rms values in the core region are attributed to the larger drag coefﬁcient
(S = 100) of the roughness elements. Consequently, the spiral waves disturbances excited by these
roughness elements are comparatively stronger from the beginning, leading to lower vrms values in
the core region. The two cases consistently indicate that the peak value of vrms occurs at zδ = 1.31.
This allows us to conﬁdently analyze the boundary layer data taken at zδ = 1.31. In fact, the three
contour plots in Fig. 4 correspond to the axial position of zδ = 1.31.
Figure 7 shows the radial distribution of perturbation energy 1 /2log(E (rδ)) along the entire
circular surface at zδ = 1.31, where
E (rδ) = 1
2n
[ n∑
1
(un − ˜u)2 + (vn − ˜v)2 + (wn − ˜w)2
]
, (9)
FIG. 7. The distribution of perturbation energy 1 /2log(E (rδ)) along the radial rδ.
013901-10