INSTABILITY CHARACTERISTICS INDUCED BY …
number is difﬁcult to discern. The spiral waves begin to develop from a lower radius and, at
higher radii, their energy reaches saturation, becoming chaotic and exhibiting phenomena such as
bifurcation.
In the rotor-stator cavity, the absolute instability process of the rotating-disk boundary layer
was discovered by Yim et al. [6] through numerical simulations. When no convective instability
spiral waves appear at lower radii, rapidly growing spiral waves occur near the critical Reynolds
number for absolute instability. Those spiral waves corresponding several elephant front-forming
global modes, form a steep front, eventually leading to incipient turbulence. Those spiral waves
corresponding to absolute instability have a relatively high azimuthal wave number, typically
between 60 and 80. It is important to emphasize that this type of process can only occur on smooth
disks. For realistic surfaces with unavoidable roughness elements on rotating disks, disturbances
generated by roughness elements trigger the spiral waves of convective instability. These spiral
waves appear at lower radii and are relatively stationary to the disk, at which point they are also
known as crossﬂow vortices (stationary mode). In contrast, the traveling spiral waves mode implies
that the spiral waves have relative motion with the rotating disk. In Yim et al. ’s [6] research,
the spiral waves of absolute instability belong to the traveling spiral waves mode. Unfortunately,
Séverac et al. [12] did not specify the relative motion state of the spiral waves in relation to the disk
in their results. However, theoretical analysis suggests that convectively instability spiral waves can
be either stationary mode or traveling spiral waves mode, while spiral waves of absolute instability
are deﬁnitively traveling spiral waves mode.
Recent research on a single rotating disk has identiﬁed global instability, which features an
azimuthal wave number even greater than that observed for absolute instability [25]. However, under
the rapid growth of convective instability, which triggers nonlinear effects before the disturbances
corresponding to global instability can develop sufﬁciently across the radial extent, no transition
processes dominated by global instability have been observed in experiments or simulations. This
suggests that while global instability may be theoretically interesting, its practical impact on the
ﬂow transition in typical experimental or simulations might be limited due to the dominance of
convective processes.
Although existing research following the work on the von Kármán boundary layer has prelimi-
narily indicated potential instability processes in rotor-stator cavity, there are still some signiﬁcant
additional factors that have not been explicitly discussed. For instance, when the rotating-disk
boundary layer is transitioning to turbulence, could vigorous turbulence on the stationary-disk
boundary layer introduce additional disturbances through the core area? To what extent will the
strong disturbances introduced by the hub decay or grow? Most importantly, for the turbine disk
cavities in aeroengine, what kind of transition processes might the surface roughness elements
induce?
Study into these questions could elucidate the similarities and differences between the rotating-
disk boundary layer in rotor-stator cavity and the von Kármán boundary layer on a single inﬁnite
rotating disk. This could enable better application of the theoretical work on the von Kármán
boundary layer to the disk boundary layers in rotor-stator cavity. The current study focuses on
the convective instability processes induced by crossﬂow vortices, which arise due to roughness
elements. For the von Kármán boundary layer, Imayama et al. [26] conducted an experimental
study using 32 uniformly distributed roughness elements to investigate the convective instability and
destabilization process of the von Kármán boundary layer. In simulations, directly implementing
wall protrusions can be challenging. Therefore, we opted to represent roughness elements using
drag source terms proportional to the relative velocity [ 27] and employed spectral vanishing
viscosity (SVV) for direct numerical simulation to stabilize the ﬂow. It is important to note
that due to model-induced discrepancies, even with the same number of roughness elements,
our current simulation results differ from Imayama et al. ’s [ 26] experimental outcomes. Con-
sequently, we have not compared our results with those of Imayama et al. ’s [26] study in our
presentation.
013901-3