             Effects of surface mass flux on the stability and receptivity
                  of the rotor boundary layer in a rotorstator system
                                   Haojie Zhang & Jianxin Liu

In this paper investigates linear stability and receptivity of the flow between two infinitely large
disks, of which one is stationary while the other is rotating at a constant angular velocity and
subject to injection or suction. Flows in such a rotor-stator configuration have received much
attention. The present study considers primarily the case where the two disks are fairly well
separated such that the interaction between the two boundary layers over them is rather weak.
The main focus is the linear stability of the rotor boundary layer and its receptivity to radially
localized, azimuthally periodic roughness or more generally unsteady surface displacement.
The paper does contain some interesting and new results, which are worth publishing eventually.
However, the paper is let down by its poor presentation, and there also are a few technical issues
to be resolved, as I shall highlight below. The manuscript in the present form is unsuitable
for publication. My commendation is that the authors be give an opportunity to undertaken a
major revision.

                                            Main Points

   1. The manuscript was badly prepared. Both the grammatical and technical accuracy is
      poor. The authors’ writing style is rather casual, and often does not quite comply with
      the basic rules of scientific writing. The authors have a habit of using inappropriate words
      and constructing sentences in a convoluted manner. As a result, many statements fail
      to project accurately the intended technical messages. I find it largely a guesswork to
      decipher what they mean.
      Often within a paragraph, the intended points are not stated in a logic order, and the
      manuscript lacks overall coherence. There are many unnecessary repetitions as a result.
   2. The abstract is inadequate. The receptivity problem has not been stated clearly since
      physical disturbances exciting instability modes were not specified properly. There is also
      confusion between the so-called ‘sensitivity’ and ‘receptivity’, which are different. The
      locations where the adjoint eigenfunction is maximum were taken to imply ‘sensitivity’
      to volumetric forcing if it is located in those regions. ‘Sensitivity’ is thus an intrinsic
      property of the operator governing stability, having nothing to do with external physical
      disturbances. The latter are present in the environment (the free stream and/or boundary),
      and the resulting equivalent volumetric forcing does not necessarily concentrate in the
      regions near the maxima of the adjoint eigenfunction. In certain situations, the volumetric
      forcing is absent, which is the case in this paper. The statements in lines 8–9 are therefore
      irrelevant and cause confusion.
      There are quite a few words used in appropriately in the abstract: ‘susceptibility’ (line 4)
      is a misuse for the technical term ‘receptivity’, and ‘insensitivity’ (line 7) is unnecessary
      since the convoluted sentence (lines 7-8) can be phrased directly as ”the growth rate and
      unstable region of the viscous type II mode are rather insensitive to the mass flux”. The
      meaning of ‘receptivity amplitude’ and ‘circumferential-wavenumber selectivity’ is vague.
   3. The introduction is rather rambling. The authors did not manage to statement clearly
      relevant outstanding issues on the topic with due emphasis on the ones most relevant to
      their work.

                                                 1
  There are a few oversights in the literature review. Concerning the absolute receptivity
  of the boundary layer over a rotating disk, the conclusion of Lingwood (1995, 1996) was
  first obtained with non-parallel-flow effect being neglected. Subsequent investigations by C.
  Davis showed that the absolute instability disappeared when non-parallelism was included.
  I do not think that the conclusion is definitive. The authors need to dig further into the
  literature as non-parallelism is an important issue for the present paper. Citations to
  references 33–36 appear to be mistaken since these papers did not consider receptivity at
  all. The description of receptivity (the last paragraph of the left column of page 2) is
  inaccurate. Receptivity is concerned with excitation of instability (eigen) modes, not just
  ‘perturbations’ of any kind.
4. For the type I mode, the critical Reynolds numbers of absolute instability are close to Rc
   shown in table II (page 10). For type II mode, the critical Reynolds numbers of absolute
   instability are also small as is shown in figure 16 (page 13). Given the rather low Reynolds
   numbers for both types of modes, non-parallelism is expected to be significant. It is
   important to discuss whether the absolute instability would survive.
5. The explanation for the mild effect of the mass flux on type II mode is unconvincing (left
   column of page 10). Given that the respective role of the ‘base flow amplitude’ and the
   ‘wall shear stress’ was not quantified, how can the competition between them ‘provides a
   possible explanation’ ?
6. That the peak of the amplitude (which probably should be referred to as coupling or
   receptivity coefficient) appears close to the location of maximum growth rate (the last
   paragraph of the left column, page 17) was taken as a main result by the authors.There
   seems no mathematical reason for this. Is this purely a coincidence? This peak is unlikely
   to be significant because the mode excited has missed the exponential amplification up-
   stream. If the same form of wall forcing is placed near the lower-branch neutral curve,
   the mode excited would probably acquire a much greater amplitude when it reaches the
   location of the maximum growth.
  With the above consideration, I would like to suggest that the authors calculate the initial
  amplitude at the lower-branch neutral curve, and follow the development of the mode to the
  critical location for absolute instability. The amplitude gained would give some useful idea
  of how likely the convective or absolute instability causes transition. The authors made a
  good point in te introduction on the relative role of convective and absolute instabilities.
  They should demonstrate it using concrete result.
7. There appears a mathematical reason why Cr attains its maximum in the region of ‘modal
   switching’ (the last paragraph of the left column, page 17). The authors need to explain
   this further by stating clearly which two modes are switched over. I do not think that the
   modes would have exactly the same eigenvalues at the switching point, but probably their
   real parts become (nearly) identical.

                                      Specific points

1. Page 1, bottom line of the left column and line 3 of the right column: ‘physical’ and
   ‘physically’ are unnecessary.
2. Page 2, line -8 of the left column: ‘physical information’ is odd obscure expression, prob-
   ably invented by the authors. It should be replaced by something like ‘physics at all
   (macroscopic) scales’.

                                             2
    The last paragraph of Section I: change ‘local effect of surface imperfection’ to ‘effect of
    localised surface imperfection’.
 3. Pages 3 and 4: the last paragraph of Section II. A: I think that ‘parallel flow approximation’
    is made in the stability analysis, but not in the base flow solution. This should be made
    clear.
    Change ‘governing equations’ to ‘equations governing instability’.
    The first paragraph of Section B: the ‘velocity fields vary continuously’ for all Reh . The
    sign for the boundary layers being well separated is that a plateau appears in between.
 4. Page 5, left column and throughout the manuscript: the word ‘conversely’ is used fre-
    quently but incorrectly in also all occasions. ‘In contrast’ could be used.
 5. Page 8, equations (32) and (33): state the physical nature of the wall forcing at this point.
    Right column equation: refer to the appendix for the expression of ‘B.C.’, which ought to
    be replaced by a conventional notation.
 6. Pages 9-10: define more precisely the ‘zarf curves’ and the projection involved.
 7. Page 10, figure 11: define ‘three-dimensional unstable surface’ mathematically. Is it a
    contour of ωi ? Here and also in subsequent figures, it is necessary to present spatial
    growth rates.
 8. Page 14, the last paragraph of the right column: change ‘linear perturbations’ to ‘velocity
    perturbation components’, and ‘perturbation wave’ to ‘instability wave’.
 9. Page 15, the right column and throughout the paper: ‘generalized wall conditions’ is
    a mis-characterization since the wall condition still corresponds to the standard kinetic
    condition. Replace it by “general wall forcing’ or ‘unsteady wall forcing’.
    Is it that xf is set to be R, the radial location where the amplitude is calculated, rather
    than xf = 0? If xf = 0 were set, the local value of h at the excitation would change
    tremendously with R. Also, c2 is an important parameter. If c ∗ 2 is too large, the
    receptivity would be considerably weakened. This point needs to be discussed in relation
    to the local nature of the wall forcing, and the scaling matching required for efficient
    excitation.
10. Pages 39-42: the reference list is extremely rough, and needs to be tidied up.
    A special nouns (e.g. Navier-Stokes, Ekman, Boödewadt, . . . . . . ) must start with a capital
    letter, and abbreviations (e.g. LES, CFD, BEK, . . . . . . ) be spelt in capital letters.
    Journal titles must be presented in a consistent style.




                                               3
